Now Spring does have number of tools for
us to use to control how dependency
injection happens and so far we've been
dealing with a single instance of the
beans that are available. What if you
have more than one implementation of an
interface? Well one of the tools that we
can go into our toolbox is the Qualifier
annotation this is a way to give the
Spring framework a hint as to which
bean you want and we're going to go by
the bean name in this example to tell
the Spring which one we want and I'm
going to add in multiple implementations
of our Greeting bean. I'm going to show
you how we can use the Qualifier
annotation to help determine which bean
to wire in. Okay one of the neat things
about dependency injection is it gives
you the option to inject different
instances and we have a lot of options
inside the Spring framework to control
how that happens and what I've done is
I've added in two new Greeting services
so we have a getter based greeting
service so just called it GetterGreetingService
and it implements GreetingService and I also added in a ConstructorGreetingService
and he also implements
the GreetingService. Now I've both marked
as Services so both get brought into the
Spring context is Spring beans and when
I run this, let me show you what happens
here, when I run this you're going to see
a problem here pop-up saying that the
and that APPLICATION FAILED TO START.
And the Parameter 0 of the constructor in, our
ConstructorInjectedController required
a single bean but 3 were found so
now we're seeing 3 of them and you
can see down here it's suggesting us for
us to use the Qualifier so we can do
either Primary or a Qualifier but in this
video I'm going to show you Qualifier
and let's see how to use that and we'll
jump over to the constructor based and
what we need to do is we actually we can
get rid of the Autowired so I'm going to
delete that and get rid of these two unused imports just to keep things tidy
and right in line here what I'm going to
use is the Qualifier annotation. Now this
annotation is going to take in a string
and fix that typo there and this is
going to take in a string and the string
is the bean name so by default when we
create a ConstructorGreetingService
it's going to get a string
name of constructorgreetingservice
with a lowercase so that allows us to
specify the class name using the
Qualifier annotation. If I run this now
it's still going to fail on the getter
injected in controller you can see that
he doesn't know which one to use so we
need to tell him the same thing and now
this one's a little bit different as we
can use it at the method level and we
can run it that way and now it should
know what both of them are and we can
see the message is there and I'm
actually not sure don't see this is my
own personal experiment here. Let's see
if we can use that at either on the
setter see if this works.
Okay so the Qualifier on setters can be
used at either the method level or
inside the method with the properties
going into the method so do have the
option there so it's important option
now we can see that we have HelloGurus!!!!
from the original one and also
from the the setter and constructor so
we can see that each one is getting
wired up properly and what's important
to note is the PropertyInjectedController. Now if I we are calling
it by type,
we are doing a hard type there so
Spring knows to do the dependency
injection by type so if I come over here
and change that to just GreetingService, now if we run this that will fail because
we had a GreetingService and we have
a GreetingServiceImpl in there so if
I go back to the Impl. Now Spring once
again is going to know which one to use.
Now one other thing that we can do is
what if we were to rename this let me
show you a trick here I'm going to go
back to GreetingService but this time
I'm going to change the property name to
match the bean name and we're going to
have to refactor this and we also need
to do the test. So now I have a GreetingService
and the type is the interface
but the name of the property is the bean
name so when I run this what's going to
happen it Spring is going to do some
reflection and see that the property
name matches the bean name and it's
going to find it that way as well so a
little work of a shortcut of not using the
Qualifier. Now you can see how easy the
Qualifier annotation is used, it's very
versatile as to getting the right bean
into the right spot and dependency
injection you also saw it towards the end
there I use the property name and
allowed Spring to go in and do
reflection and it used property name to
determine the proper bean name. Now I
want to caution you from experience.
Sometimes you can get in trouble with
that and you wind up causing unintended
side effects. I've had some issues with
it in the past and it's probably better
to use the Qualifier, that way you're
expressing your intent more as to what
you want so always remember there's
somebody going to be behind you reading
your code and you want to be expressing
what you want to do so you might find
oh yeah here's a shortcut to do it this way
and then somebody else is going to come
along and break things so it's not
always apparent when you're doing
depending on the property names for your
dependency injection and it's something
that can definitely shoot you in the
foot later down the road too.